well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so today we're gonna talk about
tomorrow December 6th it's a day that I
think should be a national holiday it
isn't it marks the end of one of the
darkest institutions in American history
and I know people are thinking the
Emancipation Proclamation no no the
Emancipation Proclamation did not end
that institution it simply freed the
slaves and it only applied within the
conflict zone people use that as a way
to attack Lincoln see he didn't really
care about slaves he only freedom in
this in this little area no it's because
he understood at least somewhat that
there were limitations on his power he's
not a king can't walk out and just speak
legislation into the air he did that as
commander-in-chief it was a strategic
decision that was made to destabilize
the south and also move towards his goal
it didn't apply in border states it
didn't apply in areas that the Union had
already taken control over because they
weren't in active rebellion
so his War Powers didn't matter those
areas had to go through the normal
process and that brings us to the 13th
amendment because without it the
Emancipation Proclamation didn't mean
anything nothing because as soon as it
was over
it could have sprouted back up there was
a no legislation to stop it from
reoccurring
so what did the thirteenth amendment say
that no amendment shall be made to the
Constitution which will authorize or
give to Congress the power to abolish or
interfere within any state with the
domestic institutions thereof including
that of persons held to labor or
servitude by the laws of said state
history people are like that it's not
what it says no it's not but it could
have been this was the 13th amendment
that was proposed in December of 1860
until the last moment there were those
who were attempting to defend the
indefensible they were trying to
enshrine a state's ability to maintain
that institution in the Constitution
didn't happen didn't pass the real
Thirteenth Amendment the one that was
ratified says neither slavery nor
involuntary servitude except as
punishment for crime whereof the party
shall have been duly convicted shall
exist within the United States or any
place subject to their jurisdiction and
then Congress shall have the power to
create appropriate legislation to make
that happen two very different things
luckily we got the right Thirteenth
Amendment but to speak to Lincoln not
really caring about it this amendment
was proposed first in 1863 and 1864 end
of 1863 beginning of 1864 and it didn't
pass it felled the pass in the house so
Lincoln made it part of the platform and
forced the house kind of bullied him
into it and then once passed the House
of the Senate went out to the states to
be ratified it was ratified and became
an amendment to the Constitution on
December 6th 1865
now a lot of states were slow to ratify
it
for example Kentucky didn't ratify until
76 mississippi didn't ratify I told him
and understand I'm not talking about
1876 and 1895 I'm talking about 1976 and
1995 I mean the ratification really
didn't matter once once the number had
been reached but it's interesting that
it took that long so one of the things
is that this day is not remembered the
way it should be
this was the closing of the darkest
chapter in American history and we don't
really do anything for probably should
and it was a stepping stone
it was another hundred years before
before there were another set of steps
taken to achieve equality but this was a
really important one and we don't mark
it the other thing to remember is that
right up until the end there were people
who attempted to defend the indefensible
and they're remembered for it I have a
feeling we're going to see a lot of
people get remembered that way due to
current events as well anyway it's just
a thought y'all have a good day